refactor: new structure android (#707)
ZupIT/beagle-docs: content/en/android/customization/custom-beagle-activity.md

---
title: Custom Beagle Activity
weight: 109
description: >-
  You will find here how to use BeagleActivity  to customize your server-driven
  activity.
---

---

## Introduction

`BeagleActivity` is a class that helps you manage where your server-driven components will be placed. Its structure works like an Android activity. 

> In order to Beagle understand that you're working with an `BeagleAcitivity`'s class, it's necessary to use **`@RegisterController`** annotation and implement their respective methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for Beagle to understand that you're working with an `BeagleAcitivity`'s class, it's necessary to use **`@RegisterController`** annotation and implement their respective methods.
```

> In order to Beagle understand that you're working with an `BeagleAcitivity`'s class, it's necessary to use **`@RegisterController`** annotation and implement their respective methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to Beagle understand that you're working with an `BeagleAcitivity` class, it's necessary to use **`@RegisterController`** annotation and implement their respective methods.
```

## What is customizable?

> When it comes to Beagle Activity, there are some custom components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it comes to a Beagle Activity, there are some custom components:
```

1. Layout xml
2. Toolbar
3. Handling error
4. ProgressBar

Check out below how to customize a Beagle Activity:

```kotlin
@RegisterController
class SampleServerDrivenActivity : BeagleActivity() {

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)

        setContentView(R.layout.activity_server_driven)
    }
    
    override fun getToolbar(): Toolbar {
        TODO("Not yet implemented")
    }

    override fun getServerDrivenContainerId(): Int {
        TODO("Not yet implemented")
    }

    override fun onServerDrivenContainerStateChanged(state: ServerDrivenState) {
        TODO("Not yet implemented")
    }
    
}
```

### 1. Layout xml

> A xml layout  file is where you host the screen component's structure, likely you do with Android Activity. Even if you're using Beagle to send your screen structure through  server-driven, it's still important to create this xml file to receive this content. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A xml layout file is where you host the screen component's structure, just like in an Android Activity. Even if you're using Beagle to send your screen structure through server-driven, it is still important to create the xml file to receive this content. 
```

See below an example of an activity xml layout: 

```kotlin
<LinearLayout
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    android:id="@+id/root_layout"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent"
    android:orientation="vertical">

    <androidx.appcompat.widget.Toolbar
        android:id="@+id/toolbar"
        android:layout_width="match_parent"
        android:layout_height="wrap_content" />

    <FrameLayout
        android:layout_width="match_parent"
        android:layout_height="match_parent">

        <FrameLayout
            android:id="@+id/server_driven_container"
            android:layout_width="match_parent"
            android:layout_height="match_parent" />

        <ProgressBar
            android:id="@+id/progress_bar"
            android:layout_width="42dp"
            android:layout_height="42dp"
            android:layout_gravity="center"
            android:visibility="gone"/>

    </FrameLayout>

</LinearLayout>
```

>  For the server-driven content, the xml layout needs a frame layout to load this content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the server-driven content, the xml layout needs a frame layout to load this content.
```

> In the `getServerDrivenContainerId()`method,  you must return the frame layout id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `getServerDrivenContainerId()`method, you must return the frame layout id.
```

```kotlin
override fun getServerDrivenContainerId(): Int = R.id.server_driven_container
```

### 2. Toolbar

> You can create a Toolbar and apply in your activity using the `getToolbar()` . In this method, you must return your Toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a Toolbar and apply in your activity using the `getToolbar()`. In this method, you must return your Toolbar.
```
